Trim old versions and download fields from registry listing endpoints (#933)
open-audio-stack/open-audio-stack-registry: specification.md

Registries are a database containing audio package metadata with an API for read access. Registries can be built in any technology or language, but they must have an API and make metadata available in the `json` format. They can optionally support other formats if they choose (such as `xml`). Registries can be implemented with backend server rendering or static site generation depending on the implementation. This specification favors paths (`/example/hello`) over query params (`?example=hello`) to allow flexibility in choice of technology stack.

> ### Listing endpoints vs package endpoints

Reviewer: While implementing the lazy call to `GET /apps/{slug}/{version}` at installation time, I faced an ambiguous situation.

If a package version has multiple files, a user can choose which file to install from UI, and then trigger the call to `GET /apps/{slug}/{version}`. But how do I retrieve the right `sha256` and `url` from the newly retrieved list of files? How do I resolve which file the user actually selected?

* By adding a `File.id` to remove ambiguity. Explicit, but increases payload size.
* By relying on the file's index in the `files` array. No extra field, less explicit, and array order must be guaranteed stable across all endpoints.
* By comparing known fields (`architectures`, `systems`, `type`, ...). Weak, no guaranteed uniqueness.

Author: Good catch - this needed to be pinned down explicitly rather than left as an assumption.

We traced how `files` order actually flows through the build: `ManagerLocal.export()` in `open-audio-stack-core` writes the root/list, org, package, and version-level JSON from the very same in-memory `pkgVersion.files` array (`Package.toJSON()` does `Object.fromEntries(this.versions)`, and the version-level file is `pkgVersion` itself, unmodified) - no per-tier reordering happens anywhere. `stripSummaryFiles()` here only `delete`s `url`/`sha256` keys in place on that array; it never reorders or drops entries. Confirmed empirically too - `zl-audio/zlsplitter@0.3.0`'s 6-file array is in identical order across `plugins/index.json`, its package endpoint, and its version endpoint in the current `out/` build.

Given that, rather than adding `File.id`, we made index stability an explicit spec guarantee instead of an incidental implementation detail. Added to `specification.md`:

> For a given package version, its `files` array must be in the same order at every tier that includes that version - the registry root, type-listing, org, package, and version endpoints all list a version's files identically, only the presence of `url`/`sha256` differs. A client can therefore identify a file selected from a listing-tier entry (where `url`/`sha256` are omitted) by its position in that array, and use the same index to find that file's full data - including `url`/`sha256` - once it fetches the org, package, or version endpoint for that package. Registries must preserve this ordering; they must not add, remove, or reorder a version's files between tiers.

So a client can select a file from the listing-tier array and reuse its index directly against the resolved full version to get the matching `url`/`sha256` - no ambiguity, no extra payload, no field for every registry implementer to remember to populate.

On the `open-audio-stack-core` side (#110): traced every place `files` is touched - `packageCompatibleFiles`, the new `PackageVersionSummaryValidator`, `resolvePackageVersion`/`fetchPackageVersion`, `packageIsVerified`, `packageRecommendations` - none of them sort, filter-and-rebuild, or otherwise reorder the array, so #110 already conforms as written; no functional change needed. Added a comment on `resolvePackageVersion()` pinning down the guarantee plus a regression test asserting the index correlation holds between the cached summary and the resolved full version, so a future change can't silently break it.

Let me know if that closes this out for you, or if you'd still prefer an explicit `File.id` for other reasons (e.g. a stable key for caching/UI beyond just this resolution step).

Reviewer: LGTM 👍

> The registry root (`GET /`) and the four type-listing endpoints (`GET /apps`, `GET /plugins`, `GET /presets`, `GET /projects`) enumerate every package of that type in one document, so to keep them lightweight they each only summarize the **latest** version of every package. Each file in that version's `files` array is still present - with its `architectures`, `systems`, `contains`, `type`, `size`, and (when set) `downloads`/`attested` - so filtering and sorting a listing by any of those stays fully accurate, but `url` and `sha256` are omitted from each file, since nothing needs them until a package is actually installed. Everything below that — org (`GET /apps/{org}`), package (`GET /apps/{slug}`), and version (`GET /apps/{slug}/{version}`) endpoints — still return the complete version history, and every file's `url` and `sha256`, for every version. Clients that need older versions or that are about to download a file must fetch one of those narrower endpoints.

Reviewer: The last sentence wasn't clear to me, so I tried rewording it to make the distinction between endpoints explicit.

```suggestion
The registry root (`GET /`) and the four type-listing endpoints (`GET /apps`, `GET /plugins`, `GET /presets`, `GET /projects`) enumerate every package of that type in one document, so to keep them lightweight they each only summarize the **latest** version of every package. Each file in that version's `files` array is still present - with its `architectures`, `systems`, `contains`, `type`, `size`, and (when set) `downloads`/`attested` - so filtering and sorting a listing by any of those stays fully accurate, but `url` and `sha256` are omitted from each file, since nothing needs them until a package is actually installed. Everything below that: the org (`GET /apps/{org}`) and package (`GET /apps/{slug}`) endpoints still return the complete version history for every package, with every file's url and sha256 included for every version. The version endpoint (`GET /apps/{slug}/{version}`) returns that same full detail for a single specified version. 
- Clients that need to see older versions should fetch the org or package endpoint (`GET /apps/{org}` and `GET /apps/{slug}`)
- Clients that are about to download a file should fetch the specific version endpoint to get that file's url and sha256. (`GET /apps/{slug}/{version}`)
```
